---
title: Overview
short_title: Overview
author: help
date: 2023-01-01 09:00:00 +0900
posted: 2023-04-03 09:00:00 +0900
last_modified_at: 2023-04-03 09:00:00 +0900
categories: [Node]
tags: [node]
pin: true
---

# SASEUL

SASEUL is an engine for building blockchain networks.

SASEUL Public Main Network is a network built with minimal features provided by the SASEUL engine. 

For using the full engine for purposes such as enterprise or **hyper-connected computing** and opening a **protocol 
for untraceable anonymous networks** beyond the public features, please contact
[ArtiFriends Inc.](https://artifriends.com/){:target="_blank"}

* Telegram: [Telegram Q&A Link](https://t.me/+tHSKLYQeZCI2N2I1)
* Kakaotalk: [Kakaotalk Q&A Link](https://open.kakao.com/o/g1ysulBe)

# Quick Start

1. Install Docker on your PC or server.
2. Use the following command to download the latest version.
    ```shell
    $ docker pull artifriends/saseul-network:latest
    $ docker run -d --init --name saseul-node -p 80:80 artifriends/saseul-network:latest
    $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script SetEnv
    ...
    
    $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-install
    $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Start
    $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script StartMining 
    $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Info
    ```
3. If you encounter any issues, run the following command.
   ```shell
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Restart
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script StartMining
   ```
4. If block data synchronization is too slow, run the following command.
   ```shell
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Stop
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Reset
   
   ... reset ...
   
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script ForceSync --peer main.saseul.net
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Start
   $ docker exec -i saseul-node saseul-script Log
   ```

# Algorithms

The SASEUL engine performs the following functions:

1. Processes transactions according to registered contract code.
2. Generates block and status data according to predefined rules.
3. Collects data stored by peers. 

In addition, the SASEUL main network operates according to the following rules:

1. Network participants create Resource Chains according to the PoW algorithm. Miners are selected as validators for the Main Chain.
2. Validators create the Main Chain according to the HAP-2 algorithm.
3. The consensus priority is given to the Resource Chain over the Main Chain.

We have utilized the principle of operating multiple chains simultaneously to overcome many of the limitations of traditional blockchain technology.
Furthermore, we have developed a perfectly decentralized blockchain network with fast speed and scalability.

## Main Chain

The Main Chain is the chain where transactions in the SASEUL network are stored. 
Data is confirmed by the HAP-2 algorithm and validator nodes. 
All transactions must be the result of methods defined in the contract.

## Resource Chain

The Resource Chain is the chain that determines the validator nodes in the SASEUL network. 
Block data is generated by the PoW algorithm, but there is no special reward even if mining is successful.

## Mining

The process of using computing power to find a Resource Block and be selected as a validator node is called Mining. 
It provides an opportunity to contribute to the network, 
and once the role of the validator is fully performed, a Resource can be obtained.

## Resource

It represents the extent of contribution to the network. When one Resource Block is created, 
the Resource Block confirmed 10 blocks or 10 minutes before is considered. 
The contribution of the confirmed block is settled in the process of the next validator creating the Main Chain. 
The contribution of one Resource Block created is 2000 * 10^18 and is divided by the number of people 
who contributed to the creation of the Main Chain.

## Transaction

It is the smallest unit of data that can make changes to the network. 
It must be defined as a Method in the Contract and wrote in the Main Chain.

## Request

It is a request for a simple query without making changes to the network. 
It must be defined as a Method in the Contract and retrieves each data in the Main Chain.

## Local Status

It is the state data that all nodes in the network must store. 
If the capacity of this data increases, the network may experience an increase in load. 
Contract code is stored in this form.

## Universal Status

It is the state data that is stored in a distributed manner in the network. 
Data such as balances are stored in this form.